README.md, before:

# Scuttle

`scuttle` Is a wrapper application that makes it easy to run containers next to Istio sidecars.  It ensures the main application doesn't start until envoy is ready, and that the istio sidecar shuts down when the application exits.  This particularly useful for Jobs that need Istio sidecar injection, as the Istio pod would otherwise run indefinitely after the job is completed.

This application, if provided an `ENVOY_ADMIN_API` environment variable,
will poll indefinitely with backoff, waiting for envoy to report itself as live, implying it has loaded cluster configuration (for example from an ADS server). Only then will it execute the command provided as an argument.

All signals are passed to the underlying application. Be warned that `SIGKILL` cannot be passed, so this can leave behind a orphaned process.

When the application exits, unless `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO_ON_FAILURE` has been set and the exit code is non-zero, `scuttle` will instruct envoy to shut down immediately.

## Environment variables

| Variable                      | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `ENVOY_ADMIN_API`             | This is the path to envoy's administration interface, in the format `http://127.0.0.1:15000`. If provided, `scuttle` will poll this url at `/server_info` waiting for envoy to report as `LIVE`. If provided and local (`127.0.0.1` or `localhost`), then envoy will be instructed to shut down if the application exits cleanly. |
| `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO`            | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not instruct istio to exit under any circumstances.
| `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO_ON_FAILURE` | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not instruct istio to exit if the main binary has exited with a non-zero exit code.
| `SCUTTLE_LOGGING`             | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will log various steps to the console which is helpful for debugging |
| `START_WITHOUT_ENVOY`         | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not wait for envoy to be LIVE before starting the main application. However, it will still instruct envoy to exit.|
| `WAIT_FOR_ENVOY_TIMEOUT`      | If provided and set to a valid `time.Duration` string greater than 0 seconds, `scuttle` will wait for that amount of time before starting the main application. By default, it will wait indefinitely. If `QUIT_WITHOUT_ENVOY_TIMEOUT` is set as well, it will take precedence over this variable |
| `ISTIO_QUIT_API`              | If provided `scuttle` will send a POST to `/quitquitquit` at the given API.  Should be in format `http://127.0.0.1:15020`.  This is intended for Istio v1.3 and higher.  When not given, Istio will be stopped using a `pkill` command.
| `GENERIC_QUIT_ENDPOINTS`      | If provided `scuttle` will send a POST to the URL given.  Multiple URLs are supported and must be provided as a CSV string.  Should be in format `http://myendpoint.com` or `http://myendpoint.com,https://myotherendpoint.com`.  The status code response is logged (if logging is enabled) but is not used.  A 200 is treated the same as a 404 or 500. `GENERIC_QUIT_ENDPOINTS` is handled before Istio is stopped. |
| `QUIT_WITHOUT_ENVOY_TIMEOUT`  | If provided and set to a valid duration, `scuttle` will exit if Envoy does not become available before the end of the timeout and not continue with the passed in executable. If `START_WITHOUT_ENVOY` is also set, this variable will not be taken into account. Also, if `WAIT_FOR_ENVOY_TIMEOUT` is set, this variable will take precedence. |

## How Scuttle stops Istio

Scuttle has two methods to stop Istio.  You should configure Scuttle appropriately based on the version of Istio you are using.

| Istio Version | Method |
|---------------|--------|
| 1.3 and higher| `/quitquitquit` endpoint |
| 1.2 and lower | `pkill` command |

### 1.3 and higher

Version 1.3 of Istio introduced an endpoint `/quitquitquit` similar to Envoy.  By default this endpoint is available at `http://127.0.0.1:15020` which is the Pilot Agent service, responsible for managing envoy. ([Source](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/15041))

To enable this, set the environment variable `ISTIO_QUIT_API` to `http://127.0.0.1:15020`.

### 1.2 and lower

Versions 1.2 and lower of Istio have no supported method to stop Istio Sidecars.  As a workaround Scuttle stops Istio using the command `pkill -SIGINT pilot-agent`.

To enable this, you must add `shareProcessNamespace: true` to your **Pod** definition in Kubernetes. This allows Scuttle to stop the service running on the sidecar container.

*Note:* This method is used by default if `ISTIO_QUIT_API` is not set

## Example usage in your Job's `Dockerfile`

```dockerfile
FROM python:latest
# Below command makes scuttle available in path
COPY --from=redboxoss/scuttle:latest /scuttle /bin/scuttle
WORKDIR /app
COPY /app/ ./
ENTRYPOINT ["scuttle", "python", "-m", "my_app"]
```

## Credits

Origin code is forked from the [envoy-preflight](https://github.com/monzo/envoy-preflight) project on Github, which works for envoy but not for Istio sidecars.

Commit message:

- remove typhon and use generic HTTP calls - add tilt testing

README.md, after:

# Scuttle

`scuttle` Is a wrapper application that makes it easy to run containers next to Istio sidecars.  It ensures the main application doesn't start until envoy is ready, and that the istio sidecar shuts down when the application exits.  This particularly useful for Jobs that need Istio sidecar injection, as the Istio pod would otherwise run indefinitely after the job is completed.

This application, if provided an `ENVOY_ADMIN_API` environment variable,
will poll indefinitely with backoff, waiting for envoy to report itself as live, implying it has loaded cluster configuration (for example from an ADS server). Only then will it execute the command provided as an argument.

All signals are passed to the underlying application. Be warned that `SIGKILL` cannot be passed, so this can leave behind a orphaned process.

When the application exits, unless `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO_ON_FAILURE` has been set and the exit code is non-zero, `scuttle` will instruct envoy to shut down immediately.

## Environment variables

| Variable                      | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `ENVOY_ADMIN_API`             | This is the path to envoy's administration interface, in the format `http://127.0.0.1:15000`. If provided, `scuttle` will poll this url at `/server_info` waiting for envoy to report as `LIVE`. If provided and local (`127.0.0.1` or `localhost`), then envoy will be instructed to shut down if the application exits cleanly. |
| `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO`            | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not instruct istio to exit under any circumstances.
| `NEVER_KILL_ISTIO_ON_FAILURE` | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not instruct istio to exit if the main binary has exited with a non-zero exit code.
| `SCUTTLE_LOGGING`             | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will log various steps to the console which is helpful for debugging |
| `START_WITHOUT_ENVOY`         | If provided and set to `true`, `scuttle` will not wait for envoy to be LIVE before starting the main application. However, it will still instruct envoy to exit.|
| `WAIT_FOR_ENVOY_TIMEOUT`      | If provided and set to a valid `time.Duration` string greater than 0 seconds, `scuttle` will wait for that amount of time before starting the main application. By default, it will wait indefinitely. If `QUIT_WITHOUT_ENVOY_TIMEOUT` is set as well, it will take precedence over this variable |
| `ISTIO_QUIT_API`              | If provided `scuttle` will send a POST to `/quitquitquit` at the given API.  Should be in format `http://127.0.0.1:15020`.  This is intended for Istio v1.3 and higher.  When not given, Istio will be stopped using a `pkill` command.
| `GENERIC_QUIT_ENDPOINTS`      | If provided `scuttle` will send a POST to the URL given.  Multiple URLs are supported and must be provided as a CSV string.  Should be in format `http://myendpoint.com` or `http://myendpoint.com,https://myotherendpoint.com`.  The status code response is logged (if logging is enabled) but is not used.  A 200 is treated the same as a 404 or 500. `GENERIC_QUIT_ENDPOINTS` is handled before Istio is stopped. |
| `QUIT_WITHOUT_ENVOY_TIMEOUT`  | If provided and set to a valid duration, `scuttle` will exit if Envoy does not become available before the end of the timeout and not continue with the passed in executable. If `START_WITHOUT_ENVOY` is also set, this variable will not be taken into account. Also, if `WAIT_FOR_ENVOY_TIMEOUT` is set, this variable will take precedence. |

## How Scuttle stops Istio

Scuttle has two methods to stop Istio.  You should configure Scuttle appropriately based on the version of Istio you are using.

| Istio Version | Method |
|---------------|--------|
| 1.3 and higher| `/quitquitquit` endpoint |
| 1.2 and lower | `pkill` command |

### 1.3 and higher

Version 1.3 of Istio introduced an endpoint `/quitquitquit` similar to Envoy.  By default this endpoint is available at `http://127.0.0.1:15020` which is the Pilot Agent service, responsible for managing envoy. ([Source](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/15041))

To enable this, set the environment variable `ISTIO_QUIT_API` to `http://127.0.0.1:15020`.

### 1.2 and lower

Versions 1.2 and lower of Istio have no supported method to stop Istio Sidecars.  As a workaround Scuttle stops Istio using the command `pkill -SIGINT pilot-agent`.

To enable this, you must add `shareProcessNamespace: true` to your **Pod** definition in Kubernetes. This allows Scuttle to stop the service running on the sidecar container.

*Note:* This method is used by default if `ISTIO_QUIT_API` is not set

## Example usage in your Job's `Dockerfile`

```dockerfile
FROM python:latest
# Below command makes scuttle available in path
COPY --from=redboxoss/scuttle:latest /scuttle /bin/scuttle
WORKDIR /app
COPY /app/ ./
ENTRYPOINT ["scuttle", "python", "-m", "my_app"]
```

## Development

Local development+testing may be accomplished using docker, [tilt.dev](https://tilt.dev/), and [KIND](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/).

```shell
# install docker, kind and tilt (if not yet done)

# This starts a local Kubernetes IN Docker (KIND) cluster with a local container registry. Local changes
# will trigger updates to the "scuttle" kubernetes Job.
sh kind-with-registry.sh

# Hit space to open the web UI
tilt up
```

## Credits

Origin code is forked from the [envoy-preflight](https://github.com/monzo/envoy-preflight) project on Github, which works for envoy but not for Istio sidecars.
